Welcome back.
Let's do a fun little demonstration of the prototype chain.
I'm going to create a dragon and this dragon will have name as the property.
Let's call that dragon Tonya fire wall.
It's a fire breathing dragon.
So obviously that's set to true.
And the dragon can also fight.
So this Fighting Dragon will return let's say damage of fire.
That's a pretty strong dragon.
And you know what.
Just to make it more fun we're going to add a Singh method to this object and we'll say it returns us
to templates strings.
I am this this dog.
Name the breather of fire.
I am Tanya the breeder of fire I should make sense now.
If we do dragon dot Singh have a syntax error because I forgot a comma.
Let's try that again.
I am Tanya the breeder of fire nice.
And if I do fight here I also get five.
Perfect.
Now let's say we have another object now in this object is just a simple lizard and this lizard unfortunately
doesn't have much powers.
It has a name of Kiki and then maybe it can also fight but definitely not as strong as the Dragon.
So it's only going to give a damage of one
not a very strong lizard.
Now if we let's say wanted to borrow a method from the dragon object we've learned how to do that before
right.
Remember bind.
Well I can just do something like contest saying lizard and this constant lizard thing lizard will have
the dragon dot sync dot find and borrow that method for the lizard object so let's console dialogue
sing lizard and run this function let's see what happens.
I run and I get I am Kiki the breather of fire.
Nice.
Very very cool but let's say this object gets a little bit more complicated let's say that the dragon
this time around.
Well in order for us to breathe fire we have to make sure that we have the fire property set to true
so that we can perhaps do if this dot fire which will be true in our case if that is true that's when
we return our battle cry so that if I run this now I get undefined.
Unfortunately the lizard doesn't have fire set to true and even though we borrow the method because
we don't have the fire ability it's never going to sing.
I am Kiki debris there are fire.
So what can we do here.
I mean we can manually just add the property but you can see how it might get more and more complicated
here right.
What if we had a big object and we want to borrow more than just one method.
We want to perhaps inherit a bunch of these properties for the lizard as well to make it all powerful.
And this is where a prototype all inheritance comes in.
What if we create a prototype chain that says hey I want lizard to inherit all these properties and
methods from Dragon.
How can we do this
we can go like this.
We can say lizard dot underscore underscore Prato underscore underscore that is we're creating that
chain from Lizard all the way up to Dragon.
All right.
Let's see if that works.
If I do.
Lizard dot sing now and I run check that out I am Kiki the breather a fire.
What about the property fire.
That means we have fire as well right.
Let's do fire or sorry just the property fire set to true.
How awesome is that.
What about flight.
If I do fight and I run this while my power is still won because I have fight already defined in my
lizard object.
So what we were able to do here is we were able to inherit through this prototype chain all the properties
and methods of the dragon and override anything that we've already declared in our own object.
So that is name and fight.
Stay with us.
But as soon as we say something like sing well the JavaScript engine is going to say all right lizard
dot saying hey lizard let's sing.
And then it's going to look through the properties and say hmm hmm I don't see sync here.
I'm going to go up the prototype chain because we've created that prototype chain up to Dragon and C
Hey dragon do you have sing.
And if Dragon has sing then it's going to run it using this code.
Now what happens if we call something other than sing maybe dance.
And if I run I get no lizard dog dance is not a function because we go up the prototype chain does Dragon
have dance.
Nope.
And then what do we do next.
We go up the prototype chain of Dragon was the prototype chain of dragon while we talked about this
right.
The prototype chain of Dragon is.
Let me comment out the dance here is the original base object so that hypothetically I can use whatever
methods this base object has.
If you remember our base object.
So if I go concept object or concept dragon equals for now an empty object and I do dragon dot underscore
underscore Frodo underscore underscore I get this base object and I have a few properties here.
So if I do let's say is prototype of which looks like comes with the base object I should be able to
use this right.
If I do dragon dot is Prado type of and in here I say hey another object whose prototype chain is to
be checked.
So is Dragon a prototype of let's say a lizard I run this.
Yep dragon is a prototype of lizard.
What happens underneath the hood.
We tell the javascript engine Hey dragon run this method.
It's going to look in the Dragon object say.
I don't see any method called is prototype off here.
I'm going to go up the prototype chain to the base object that all objects are created in JavaScript
from including functions in arrays and it's going to say hey do you have is prototype of the javascript
engine.
He's gonna say yep I have is prototype of let's give you that functionality and for us this functionality
is prototype of does exactly what it asks us to it ask hey is Dragon a prototype of lizard that is does
lizard inherit from Dragon.
Yep it does.
So we get true.
If I change this around to Lizard Dragon and I run this I get false because lizard isn't the prototype
of Dragon it's the other way around.
Now you may have noticed something interesting here.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video or we'll discuss this further.
Bobby.